“The biggest problem with the two-party system is that once it is in place, the best people will choose not to be in politics”

“In Britain, if you look at the First Class Honours list of Oxford or Cambridge and trace their careers, you will find that these people end up not in politics, but in banking, finance and the professions.”

“But the difference between Singapore and those countries – that is, America and Britain – is that they will continue to do well despite an average government, but we will not. This is a small country with no natural resource and in the middle of a region that has been volatile historically. Special leadership is required here.”

“It is true that no country in the world pays ministers as we do. But it is also true that no other island has developed like Singapore: sparkling, clean, safe, with no corruption and low crime rates. ”

“With every pay reduction, the sacrifice that a minister makes – giving up his profession or his banking job – becomes greater. Some will eventually tell themselves: “I don’t mind doing this for half a term, two and a half years, as a form of national service. But beyond that, it has to be: thanks but no thanks.” The final outcome would be a revolving door government, which will inevitably lack a deep understanding of the issues or the incentive to think about problems in a long-term manner.”

“Whatever those choices are, I am absolutely sure that if Singapore gets a dumb government, we are done for. This country will sink into nothingness.”


“our low birth rates have nothing to do with economic or financial factors, such as high cost of living or lack of government help for parents. They are instead the result of changed lifestyles and mindsets.”

“The total fertility rate per woman came down to a low of 1.15 in 2010, from close to 2.0 in the late 1980s. The replacement level is 2.1. There is a minor increase in births every time the Year of the Dragon comes around on the Chinese calendar (1988, 2000, 2012), but this spike has been shrinking, in line with the long-term downtrend.”

“At the current fertility level and without immigration, the burden of an ageing population on the young will become unbearable within one generation. The number of working-age adults supporting each citizen aged 65 and above will fall from 5.9 in 2012 to 2.1 in 2030. Only the pandas are in a similar situation on the question of reproduction - and they do not have to worry about whether there are enough resources to ensure their seniors will be taken care of.”

“Changed lifestyles have taken hold of developed societies everywhere in the world, from Japan to Europe. Once women are educated and have equal job opportunities, they no longer see their primary role as bearing children or taking care of the household. ”

“Singaporeans have strong reservations about admitting immigrants, but we arrive at this option almost by process of elimination.”
- politically digestible
- at scale that is culturally assimilating
- immigrants do not boost fertility rate

There are limitations to immigration, but there are no short term alternative otherwise.

“If I had to identify one issue that threatens Singapore’s survival the most, it would be this one.”

“The Chinese, with the one-child policy, will regret bitterly when they find one child having to support four grandparents.”


“Singapore has a very open economy. From the moment we were separated from Malaysia, it was destined that, as a port city cut off from its natural hinterland, we had no way to develop other than to create very extensive links with the rest of the world.”

“Unfortunately, as we continue to thrive, we will be confronted by a widening income gap. The problem is not peculiar to Singapore. In a globalised world, the nature of competition is such that the wages of those at the bottom get depressed and those at the top, who are mobile and much sought after, enjoy ever larger pay packets.

“I am opposed to too much interference with the free market. This distorts incentives and creates inefficiencies that are much harder to root out later. The minimum wage is one example of that. A far better approach would be to allow the free market to run its course and achieve the most optimal outcome in terms of total economic output before having the government step in at the end of that process to tax the rich to give to the poor.”

“Q: What about PM Lee Hsien Loong’s generation? My point is, maybe the decision to come back is not merely one of economic opportunity.
A: No, the only reason that will bring them back is their parents.
Q: That’s one big reason. But how about a sense of patriotism, or a sense of having something to contribute to the land?
A: You’re talking about a globalised world. The world is their oyster.”



“The Middle East region lacks a history of counting heads and making decisions on that basis. There is no democratic tradition – whether in ancient Islamic times, in more recent colonial history, or in the post-colonial nationalistic era. When the British and French protectorates broke up into separate states, they all ended up with one-man rule – not by coincidence, but for deep cultural and sociological reasons.”

“On top of not having any prior experience in representative forms of politics, the Middle East also lacks of vital social factors that form the foundation on which democracy must stand.”

“The first is a sense of equal citizenship. This is the idea that you and I, despite all our differences in wealth, social standing, achievement, physical and mental attributes, and so on, are on par at some level for no reason other than that we are both citizens of a particular nation.”

“This concept necessarily precedes the development of actual democratic practices and institutions.”

“This ingredient is what I call the wherewithal to make real economic progress.
The ability is missing simply because they have insisted on keeping women in the background.”

“They are building conference halls and palaces to generate goodwill so that they can get more oil and other primary resources.”


“With every passing day, a permanent resolution to the conflict becomes less likely.
The United Nations has declared the Israeli settlements a violation of international law, describing them as a “creeping annexation”.
The Israelis, however, know that such declarations are toothless unless they are endorsed by the Americans”

“All of this is doing America no good in the long run. It erodes the superpower’s overall credibility and roils up the whole Arab world against the Americans.”

“One country that would prefer to jeopardise any such peace deal is Iran. The Iranian government has repeatedly affirmed its commitment to the destruction of the state of Israel.”




“The capitalist system is not fundamentally defective. Despite the growing rhetoric in some quarters, it does not need to be overturned or rebuilt.”

“In the long run, the world is better off and will grow much quickly under capitalism because the free market is the most efficient way of organizing the productive forces in any society, as history has clearly proven.”

“Critics who subscribe to the views of the Austrian economist Friedrich Hayek believe such policies prevent fat in the economy from being trimmed, prolongs the life of inept companies and industries, and ultimately do nothing more than kick the can down the road. Natural adjustments to the economy must come eventually, they say, and blocking that through quantitative easing at best prolongs the necessary adjustment process and at worst builds inefficiencies into the system that will ultimately result in long-term sluggishness, if not a bigger recession later on.

I believe having supportive policies, monetary or Keynesian, to deal with crises is the lesser of two evils. Many countries tried the Hayekian approach of basically doing nothing during the Great Depression-with disastrous consequences. Thanks to the highly integrated global trade system we have in this day and age, the risk of a worldwide tightening with knock-on effects for every continent was a terrifying prospect for all. Nobody, therefore, wanted America to experience a hard landing.”


“The US is able to carry out quantitative easing because its dollar happens to be the world’s reserve currency. They are allowed to run a deficit for a long time with very few consequences. If other countries were to do that, they run the risk of capital outflow and exchange rate collapse. The cost is low to the Americans because some of what of what have cost a regular country has been transferred to the rest of the world. The Americans can borrow at more favourable interest rates because of a greater willingness by people elsewhere to hold cash reserves and assets in US dollars. That is the advantage of being the reserve currency.”

“For now, the bigger short-term threat to the health of the global economy is a clampdown on free trade. We will always be just one protectionist wave away from a slowdown. We must never forget that the Great Depression of the 1930s was worsened by the isolationist tendencies among several countries. If America’s politicians, for example, decide, perhaps out of electoral calculations, to impose a prohibitive tax on the Chinese for selling their goods under cost price, there will be some form of retaliation. Once you go down that route, it would not be long before other trading partners, including Europe and Japan, find themselves pulled into the conflict and having to consider similar measures. Then the whole trade system goes down by several degrees. The world will end up poorer overall. In many cases, it is the poor countries that will be hardest hit. Starting from lower bases, they stand to gain a lot more from trade, proportionally.”



“On the Asian side of the Pacific, even though growth will be robust, it will be many decades before consumption comes close to the levels seen in the United States. There are cultural reasons for this. The Chinese have lived through natural disasters, wars and great uncertainty, when the individual or the family had to be self-reliant, falling back on whatever had been saved up during the good times. It will not be easy to convince them to become free spenders. Singapore, similarly, has set aside large reserves because of a cultural affinity towards staying prepared for rainy days.”

“Another downside of globalisation is the tendency for inequality to breed. The most talented individuals are mobile and can make a good living in many parts of the world. The drive to pay these individuals very high salaries therefore becomes impossible for companies to resist if they want to retain them.”

“Ways must be found to make sure even those at the bottom can maintain a decent standard of living and feel a sense of belonging to their community.”



“You accept the world as it is, and find the best way of maximising your fortunes as a society, or you are left behind by the relentless pace of change found everywhere else. The world cannot possibly stop spinning for your sake.”


“Global warming and climate change threaten human survival. This calls for governments to act together to cut total emissions significantly. Unfortunately, it is very unlikely that this will happen. In 2009, The United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen ended without a binding agreement, despite the gathering of the leaders of all the important players. Subsequent conferences have not achieved spectacular results, nor would I hold my breath for future ones to do so.

At the heart of the issue is the perceived unavoidable trade-off between cutting emissions and growing the economy. When a government comes to the negotiating table, it knows it cannot move too far ahead of its domestic population when it makes concessions. If the pain inflicted on incomes and jobs is too much to take, it risks getting booted out of office.”

“How do we put a stop to the relentless growth? The key, in my view, lies in educating women - which causes them to want fewer children. The sooner we are able to do this, the sooner we will have a less populated world.”

“That explains the rise of environmental consciousness in China. They know that if they continue to produce at current energy efficiency levels, they will never hit America's GDP per capita because there simply isn't that much energy available to them. Furthermore, they can see their own people suffering from air and water pollution and their own environment changing in frightening ways. Respiratory diseases are on the rise. Sandstorms are becoming more frequent. The glaciers of the Tibetan plateau are receding every year.”

“shale gas promises to make the North Americans energy independent - an unprecedented feat.”



“Without that, I would not be in my present condition physically. It is a discipline.”

“You must meet people, because you must have human contact if you want to broaden your perspective.”

“I try not to meet only old friends or political leaders, but people from a variety of fields, such as academics, businessmen, journalists and ordinary people.”

“Eventually, it was the market value of an education in English that settled the problem. Hence, we have today’s Singapore, with English connecting us to the world and attracting the multinational corporations, and the mother tongues as second language keeping us linked to China, India and Indonesia. This was a critical turning point. Had the people chosen the other path, Singapore would be a backwater.”

“I am not given to making sense out of life - or coming up with some grand narrative on it - other than to measure it by what you think you want to do in life. As for me, I have done what I had wanted to, to the best of my ability. I am satisfied.”

“In the end, my greatest satisfaction in life comes from the fact that I have spent years gathering support, mustering the will to make this place meritocratic, corruption-free and equal for all races - and that it will endure beyond me, as it has”

“Singapore, as it stands, is the one corruption-free spot in a region where corruption is endemic. The institutions have been created to keep it that way, with the anti-corruption bureau. People are promoted on the basis of merit, not of race, language or religion. If we uphold these institutions, we will continue to make progress. That is my greatest hope.”


“I think to be able to achieve anything, you must first gain the trust of the people - that you are not just making promises or pleasantries, that you mean what you say. And while you may succeed or you may fail, you will try and do what you have said. And that was the reason why I was able to succeed, because in several major instances, I carried out what I promises to do in spite of opposition.”

“The Americans became involved not because of democracy and human rights, but because they did not want to see a Europe which was under such a powerful ideology which would threaten them”

“Well, it depends on what you think life is about. I mean, if I want to lead a happy personal life, then I would have remained a lawyer and a businessman and today I would be very much wealthier than I am. But I did not set out to do that. I saw a situation which I thought was wrong and I sought to put it right and I have the satisfaction of seeing better-fed people, better housing, everybody owning their own home, everybody having children who go to school, better health services, recreational facilities, all they could ask for in life. The problem is they now take it for granted and they believe that we can go on autopilot. I don't think so. I think if the government falls into bad hands, bad leaders, it will gradually regress. There is no such thing as flying at maximum speed, autopilot.”




